The most closest work I could find is: 
Scalable methods for nonnegative matrix factorizations of near-separable tall-and-skinny matrices (NIPS14)

The paper talks about NMF where #docs is far more than #words. #words should be small (e.g. 5000). Because the algorithm requires QR factorization and SVD on a matrix of size #words \times #words. 

The method is based on separability assumption. The main idea is to reduce the data matrix (#docs x # words) to a matrix of size (#words x # words), and then apply SPA or XRAY to find extreme rays. 
The implementation uses hadoop mapreduce framework and the code is available in git.

Datasets:
Apart from synthetic experiments, two real datasets have been used. Both the datasets are available to public.

Heat transfer simulation data: 4.9 billion datapoints and 64 features. File size 2TB.
Flow cytometry data: 1.6 billion datapoints and 25 features. File size 345GB.

Both the matrices are structured and the i.i.d assumptions on the datapoints may not hold.


Performance metrics:
Normalized residual error (called Relative error) is used as performance metrics. In addition the quality of the discovered factors and their behavior is discussed via some plots.












The next closest would be:

Maxios: Large Scale Nonnegative Matrix Factorization for Collaborative Filtering (NIPS14 workshop paper)
This paper proposed a distributed algorithm to handle large scale sparse data with missing entries. 
The paper has used Yahoo Music Ratings data and Netflix Movie Ratings.

Yahoo Music Ratings:  1.9M users and 98K artists. 
Netflix Movie Ratings: 480K users and 17K movies.

Performance metrics: Reconstruction error.


NMF_CD -- Fast Coordinate Descent Method for Non-Negative Matrix Factorization
Dataset: RCV1 - 781K documents, 47K features.
Metrics: Normalized residual error (called Relative error)


New York Times : 1.8M documents, 8000 words. 
See paper: Bayesian Nonnegative Matrix Factorization with Stochastic Variational Inference
















Sparse Approximate Conic Hulls
NMF_CD -- Fast Coordinate Descent Method for Non-Negative Matrix Factorization
Robust large-scale non-negative matrix factorization using Proximal Point algorithm
Random projections for non-negative matrix factorizations
Recovery Guarantee of Non-negative Matrix Factorization via Alternating Updates
Orthogonal NMF through Subspace Exploration

Other:
How to Fake Multiply by a Gaussian Matrix
https://github.com/Microsoft/ISLE
Fast Robust Non-Negative Matrix Factorization for Large-Scale Human Action Data Clustering
New SVD based initialization strategy for Non-negative Matrix Factorization
Hierarchical non-negative matrix factorization to characterize brain tumor heterogeneity using multi-parametric MRI
Hierarchical non-negative matrix factorization (hNMF): a tissue pattern differentiation method for glioblastoma multiforme diagnosis using MRSI



Amazon work:
Positive-Unlabeled Learning with Non-Negative Risk Estimator
http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5477-neural-word-embedding-as-implicit-matrix-factorization.pdf
Speedup Matrix Completion with Side Information: Application to Multi-Label Learning
Estimating Jaccard Index with Missing Observations: A Matrix Calibration Approach









